Editorial review: Document interest invokers (#42021)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/popover_api/interest_invokers/index.md

## Interest invoker interaction with other popovers

It is possible to combine interest invokers with regular popovers on the same control. In this example, we have a {{htmlelement("button")}} element that is set to be an interest invoker via the `interestfor` attribute, meaning it will show a tooltip when interest is shown in it. However, when it is clicked, it will show/hide a different popover, referenced inside the `commandfor` attribute. The [`command`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/button#command) attribute is set to `toggle-popover` so that it can be pressed multiple times to toggle the popover between showing and hidden states.

```css hidden live-sample___interest-invoker-popover-interaction
#mytooltip {
  position-area: right;
}

#myinfobox {
  position-area: bottom;
}
```

```html live-sample___interest-invoker-popover-interaction
<p>
  Some basic text with
  <button
    interestfor="mytooltip"
    commandfor="myinfobox"
    command="toggle-popover">
    a button
  </button>
  inside it.
</p>
<p id="mytooltip" popover="hint">A hover toolip</p>
<p id="myinfobox" popover>

>   An infobox that also contains some control buttons<br />

Author: I would love it if we were able to get rid of XHTML trailing slashes on MDN, but unfortunately, we lint all the markup with prettier, which enforces them 😢

stylePanel.addEventListener("loseinterest", revertStyle);
buttons.forEach((button) => button.addEventListener("click", setStyle));
```

Finally, we define the functions mentioned previously:

- `sampleStyle()`: When interest is shown via a button, the `class` set on it is accessed via `e.source.className` (`InterestEvent.source` contains a reference to the interest invoker that interest was shown on) and applied to the style panel via `e.target.className`.
- `revertStyle()`: When interest is lost, the style panel is reverted back to its previous style by setting the class stored in `prevStyle` as its `className`.
- `setStyle()`: When a button is actually clicked, its `className` is set as the style panel's `className`. We also set `prevStyle` to equal the clicked button's `className` so that, next time a style is previewed, it will revert back to the _new_ previously-set style.

```js live-sample___non-popover
function sampleStyle(e) {
  e.target.className = e.source.className;
}

function revertStyle(e) {
  e.target.className = prevStyle;
}

function setStyle(e) {
  stylePanel.className = e.target.className;
  prevStyle = e.target.className;
}
```

### Result

> This renders as follows:

Reviewer: Cool demo!

```css hidden live-sample___link-preview-popover
[popover]:interest-target {
  opacity: 1;
}

[popover] {
  opacity: 0;
  transition:
    opacity 0.7s,
    overlay 0.7s allow-discrete,
    display 0.7s allow-discrete;
}

@starting-style {
  [popover]:interest-target {
    opacity: 0;
  }
}
```

### Result

This renders as follows:

{{embedlivesample("link-preview-popover", "100%", "260", , , , , "allow-popups")}}

Try hovering/focusing the link to show the preview popover. There is also progressive enhancement at play in this example — in non-supporting browsers, the link will still work as expected.

> 

Reviewer: Overall - very nice overview page for the API. 😄

---
title: Using interest invokers

> slug: Web/API/Popover_API/Interest_invokers

Reviewer 2: Should we update the slug to 
```suggestion
slug: Web/API/Popover_API/Using_interest_invokers
```
I guess guides in the API area do keep the verb in the slug

Author: I...tried updating the slug, but the new URL wouldn't work. I really don't know why. Some kind of bug?

There were also dozens of links to update, so I gave up.

Author: Ah wait, I've figured it out...I'll give it another go ;-)

Reviewer 2: Thank you!

page-type: guide
---

{{DefaultAPISidebar("Popover API")}}

**Interest invokers** is a feature that provides an mechanism for updating a user interface or running custom code when the user "shows interest" or "loses interest" in an invoker element (for example by hovering or unhovering it). This is most commonly used to show and hide popovers, but it has other uses. This article explains the concepts behind interest invokers, what their use cases are, and how to use them.

## Concepts

> The Popover API provides functionality for displaying popovers when a related control element (termed an **invoker**) is activated, for example, when the control is clicked. This is useful for displaying modals, information panels, etc. You can create declarative popovers using a combination of the [`popover`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/button#popover) attribute and either the [`popovertarget`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/button#popovertarget) or [`commandfor`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/button#commandfor) attributes (see [Creating declarative popovers](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API/Using#creating_declarative_popovers)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Popover API provides the functionality to display a popover when a related control element (the **invoker**) is activated, for example, when it is clicked. This feature is useful for displaying UI elements such as modals and information panels. You can [create popovers declaratively](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API/Using#creating_declarative_popovers) by using the [`popover`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/button#popover) attribute together with either [`popovertarget`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/button#popovertarget) or [`commandfor`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/button#commandfor).
```

> But what about displaying popovers when a control is hovered over or focused via the keyboard? This kind of interaction is also very common — most social and community sites have features whereby you can hover over a link to a person's bio page or a group page to get some information about them in a popover before deciding whether or not to commit to navigating to the page. Such popovers might also contain quick actions such as "Subscribe to group", allowing the user to subscribe without losing the current context of where they are.

Reviewer 2: I think we can mention and highlight the difference between the traditional activation-based popovers (previous para) and the interest-based popovers.
- WDYT about this first sentence suggestion?
- I don't understand what we mean by "group page" here
- Should "bio page" be called "profile page"?
```suggestion
In addition to activation-based popovers, there is also a common need to display a popover when a control element is hovered or focused – interactions that indicate user interest. For example, many social and community sites let users hover over a link to a person's bio page or a group page to show a popover with more information, helping users decide whether they want to visit the page. Such popovers may also contain quick actions, such as "Subscribe to group" or "Follow", allowing users to take an action without losing their current context.
```

Let's look at a simple example:

```css hidden live-sample___basic-interest-invoker live-sample___interest-invoker-popover-interaction live-sample___interest-invoker-styling live-sample___interest-invoker-api live-sample___non-popover live-sample___link-preview-popover
.no-interest-invokers body::before {
  content: "Your browser doesn't support interest invokers.";
  background-color: wheat;
  display: block;
  padding: 10px 0;
  width: 100%;
  text-align: center;
}
```

```js hidden live-sample___basic-interest-invoker live-sample___interest-invoker-popover-interaction live-sample___interest-invoker-styling live-sample___interest-invoker-api live-sample___non-popover live-sample___link-preview-popover
const supported =
  HTMLButtonElement.prototype.hasOwnProperty("interestForElement");
if (!supported) {
  document.querySelector("html").classList.add("no-interest-invokers");
}
```

```html live-sample___basic-interest-invoker
<p>

>   Some basic text with <a href="#" interestfor="mypopover">a link</a> inside it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Some text with <a href="#" interestfor="mypopover">a link</a>.
```
